Reorganize HIP runtime API how-to (#3622)
ROCm-Developer-Tools/HIP: docs/how-to/hip_runtime_api.rst

.. meta::
  :description: This chapter describes the HIP runtime API and shows

>                 how to use it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  :description: HIP runtime API usage
```

  :keywords: AMD, ROCm, HIP, CUDA, HIP runtime API How to,

.. _hip_runtime_api_how-to:

********************************************************************************

> HIP Runtime API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
HIP runtime API
```

The HIP runtime API provides C and C++ functionalities to manage event, stream,

> and memory on GPUs. On AMD ROCm software, the HIP runtime uses :doc:`Common

Reviewer 2: The figure shows both PAL and ROCr, so "On AMD ROCm software" should be "On the AMD platform".

Author: Fixed.

> :doc:`Common Language Runtime (CLR) <hip:understand/amd_clr>`, while on NVIDIA

Reviewer 2: Should be `Compute Language Runtime (CLR)

Author: Fixed and updated the link side also.

:doc:`Common Language Runtime (CLR) <hip:understand/amd_clr>`, while on NVIDIA
platforms it is only a thin layer over the CUDA runtime or Driver API.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The HIP runtime API provides C and C++ functionalities to manage event, stream, and memory on GPUs. On AMD ROCm software, the HIP runtime uses
:doc:`Common Language Runtime (CLR) <hip:understand/amd_clr>`, while on NVIDIA CUDA
platform, it is only a thin layer over the CUDA runtime or Driver API.

```

  ``OpenCL™``. CLR includes the ``HIP`` implementation on the AMD
  platform: `hipamd <https://github.com/ROCm/clr/tree/develop/hipamd>`_ and the

>   Radeon Open Compute Common Language Runtime (``rocclr``). ``rocclr`` is a

Reviewer 2: ROCm Compute Language Runtime (``rocclr``)

Author: I pushed your suggestion, however, the ROCm Common Language Runtime in this case would make sense also, because rocclr contains the compute runtime used in HIP and OpenCL, so it's the "common".

@jujiang-del please double-check at your side, that we are sure that "Compute" is the correct.

Reviewer 2: Yes, please use "Compute"

  Radeon Open Compute Common Language Runtime (rocclr). rocclr is a virtual
  device interface, that enables the HIP runtime to interact with different
  backends such as :doc:`ROCr <rocr-runtime:index>` on Linux or PAL on Windows. CLR also include the

>   implementation of `OpenCL runtime <https://github.com/ROCm/clr/tree/develop/opencl>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **CLR** contains source code for AMD's compute language runtimes: ``HIP`` and
  ``OpenCL™``. CLR includes the ``HIP`` implementation on the AMD
  platform: `hipamd <https://github.com/ROCm/clr/tree/develop/hipamd>`_ and the
  Radeon Open Compute Common Language Runtime (``rocclr``). ``rocclr`` is a virtual
  device interface that enables the HIP runtime to interact with different
  backends such as :doc:`ROCr <rocr-runtime:index>` on Linux or PAL on Windows. CLR also includes the
`OpenCL runtime <https://github.com/ROCm/clr/tree/develop/opencl>`_ implementation.
```

- The **CUDA runtime** is built on top of the CUDA driver API, which is a C API
  with lower-level access to NVIDIA GPUs. For further information about the CUDA

>   driver and runtime API and its relation to HIP check the :doc:`CUDA driver API porting guide<hip:how-to/hip_porting_driver_api>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The **CUDA runtime** is built on top of the CUDA driver API, which is a C API with lower-level access to NVIDIA GPUs. For details about the CUDA
  driver and runtime API with reference to HIP, see :doc:`CUDA driver API porting guide<hip:how-to/hip_porting_driver_api>`.
```

The relation between the different runtimes and their backends is presented in

> the following figure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The components of HIP runtime API under AMD and NVIDIA platform are summarized in the following figure:
```

Author: The backends of HIP runtime API under AMD and NVIDIA platform are summarized in the following figure:

Reviewer: Ok.

.. figure:: ../data/how-to/hip_runtime_api/runtimes.svg

.. note::

>   The CUDA specific headers can be found in the `hipother repository <https://github.com/ROCm/hipother>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  For CUDA-specific headers, see the `hipother repository <https://github.com/ROCm/hipother>`_.
```

.. meta::
  :description: This chapter describes the HIP runtime API and shows

>                 how to use it in AMD HIP.

Reviewer 3: "in AMD HIP" is a bit repetitive (even if there might be some nuances between backends)
```suggestion
                how to use it.
```

  :keywords: AMD, ROCm, HIP, CUDA, HIP runtime API How to,

.. _hip_runtime_api_how-to:

********************************************************************************
HIP Runtime API
********************************************************************************

The HIP runtime API provides C and C++ functionality to manage GPUs, like event,
stream and memory management. On AMD platforms the HIP runtime uses the
:doc:`Common Language Runtime (CLR) <hip:understand/amd_clr>`, while on NVIDIA
platforms it is only a thin layer over the CUDA runtime or Driver API.

> - **CLR** contains source code for AMD's compute language runtimes: ``HIP`` and

Reviewer 3: Since the CLR repository can't even agree on its name itself, we should not mix up "common" and "compute" language runtimes (as both are abbreviated to clr)
Maybe just leave the "language" out
```suggestion
- **CLR** contains source code for AMD's compute runtimes: ``HIP`` and
```

Reviewer 2: Should be compute language runtime

>   ``OpenCL™``. CLR includes the implementation of the ``HIP`` language on the

Reviewer 3: Is it the HIP language or the HIP runtime?

Author: Actually, I can find kernel language and runtime API too.

  AMD platform `hipamd <https://github.com/ROCm/clr/tree/develop/hipamd>`_ and
  the Radeon Open Compute Common Language Runtime (rocclr). rocclr is a virtual
  device interface, that enables the HIP runtime to interact with different

>   backends such as ROCr on Linux or PAL on Windows. CLR also include the

Reviewer 3: Should we explain ROCr and PAL? We could at least link to ROCr

Author: Link added.

>   implementation of `OpenCL runtime <https://github.com/ROCm/clr/tree/develop/opencl>`_.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  implementation of the `OpenCL runtime <https://github.com/ROCm/clr/tree/develop/opencl>`_.
```

- The **CUDA runtime** is built on top of the CUDA driver API, which is a C API
  with lower-level access to NVIDIA GPUs. For further information about the CUDA
  driver and runtime API and its relation to HIP check the :doc:`CUDA driver API porting guide<hip:how-to/hip_porting_driver_api>`.
  On non-AMD platform, HIP runtime determines, if CUDA is available and can be

>   used.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  On non-AMD platforms, the HIP runtime determines, if CUDA is available and can be
  used.
```
Also, this sentence seems a bit out of place. On non-AMD platforms the HIP runtime is dependent on CUDA, but that has already been mentioned before.

Author: Removed the line.
